Gambling with Australian brachiopods
------------------------------------

Taxonomic extinction can be thought of as a gambling process, with the eventual
disappearance of a taxon being inevitable regardless of the odds of "winning" or
"losing" 


. In the case of genera, the consituent
species can be thought of as the betting pieces. 

Understanding the differential extinction of taxa is one of the primary goals of
paleobiology. While periods of high intensity extinction have received the
majority of attention, these events only represent a fraction of the total
fossil record. Here, various factors which might contribute to the longevity of
taxa are compared under a unified framework in order to estimate the extinction
risk associated with various adaptive zones.

Genera can be thought of as gamblers, with their constituent species being 
betting pieces. Given infinite time a gambler will eventually loose all their
money, regardless of the odds. What is important is how long it takes the
average genus to go "bust" (extinct). By comparing the durations of genera based
on their properties as well as the properties of their constituent species, it
should be possible to determine which traits "tip the scales" of extinction
risk.

Extinction risk is analyzed in a parametric survival analytical framework based
on the distribution of taxonomic durations. The Australian record of brachiopods
in the Permian is analyzed because it represents a relatively complete and well
worked sequence. During the Permian, the east coast of Australia faced the
Panthalassic and might have represented a partially isolated biogeographic
province.
The factors of interest are substrate and environmental preference, body size,
and biogeographic occupancy.
