Gambling with Australian brachiopods
------------------------------------

Understanding the differential extinction of taxa is one of the primary goals of
paleobiology. 
Extinction can be thought of as a Gambler's Ruin type process, with the eventual
disappearance of a taxon being inevitable regardless of the odds of "winning" or
"losing". What is of interest, instead, is how long it takes for a gambler to go
"bust".
We can imagine a genus as a "gambler" with its constituent species as
betting pieces. The properties of both the genus and the species affect the
odds of going "bust" (extinct). By comparing genera with similar properties
to those with different, it is possible to estimate how these properties may
"tip the scales" of generic extinction risk.

Using the Australian record of Permian brachiopods various factors which might
contribute to the longevity of taxa during periods of low intensity (i.e.
background) extinction are compared. These factors include substrate and
environmental preference, body size, and biogeographic occupancy.
The effect of these factors on the distribution of taxonomic durations is
analyzed in a parametric survival analytical framework. Additionally, occupancy
is estimated using a biogeographic network approach.
This particular fossil sequence was chosen because it represents a relatively
complete and well worked sequence. Additionally, during the Permian the east
coast of Australia faced the Panthalassic Ocean and may have represented
a partially isolated biogeographic province. Additionally, by focusing on
a specific region instead of the global record the analytical goal is to
determine specific selection differences in an environment, *sensu* Simpson, as
opposed to global patterns. In addition to biogeographic occupancy, the other
studied factors are important components of the best predictors differential
longevity. This implies that extinction is brachiopods does not follow
a completely Field Bullets mode, but is partially selective with respect to
biology.
